docs/mlm.md, before:

### mlm task-type

[back to main README](../README.md)

The task-type `mlm` can be used for Masked Language Modeling. In MaChAmp, we follow the strategy of the original BERT
paper ([Devlin et al, 2019](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/)), except that we do not use the next sentence
prediction. The input data for this task should be in raw txt format, like this (this is a sample from Wikipedia):

```
Alvestêdetocht
De Alvestêdetocht is in reedriderstocht fan sawat 200 kilometer by de alve stêden fan Fryslân lâns. 
Ljouwert, de haadstêd fan Westerlauwersk Fryslân, is fan âlds it start- en finishplak. 
De tocht bringt de dielnimmers fan Ljouwert nei Snits, Drylts, Sleat, Starum, Hylpen, Warkum, Boalsert, Harns, Frjentsjer en Dokkum en dan wer werom nei Ljouwert, dêr't op de Bonke de einstreek leit. 
Hûnderttûzenen taskôgers wiene by de lêste tochten de kjeld treast en moedigen oan 'e rûte de reedriders oan.
```

The only supported evaluation metric for this task is perplexity. Because in multi-task learning we pick the model with
the highest sum of all metrics and most metrics have a range 0-1, we invert the perplexity by doing: `1-1/ppl`. This can
easily be edited in the bottom of `machamp/models/machamp_model.py`, and we welcome suggestions on how to do this more
correct/principled.

**This task type has a special handling of the data**, it uses only a portion of the data each epoch. Because MLM is
more prone to overfitting and data is cheap, we divide the dataset by the number of epochs, and thus ensure that we 
see each instance only once. If you do not have enough data with this strategy we recommend that you just multiply it
before training.

Commit message:

Allow to not split up MLM data, and avoid data_source warning

docs/mlm.md, after:

### mlm task-type

[back to main README](../README.md)

The task-type `mlm` can be used for Masked Language Modeling. In MaChAmp, we follow the strategy of the original BERT
paper ([Devlin et al, 2019](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N19-1423/)), except that we do not use the next sentence
prediction. The input data for this task should be in raw txt format, like this (this is a sample from Wikipedia):

```
Alvestêdetocht
De Alvestêdetocht is in reedriderstocht fan sawat 200 kilometer by de alve stêden fan Fryslân lâns. 
Ljouwert, de haadstêd fan Westerlauwersk Fryslân, is fan âlds it start- en finishplak. 
De tocht bringt de dielnimmers fan Ljouwert nei Snits, Drylts, Sleat, Starum, Hylpen, Warkum, Boalsert, Harns, Frjentsjer en Dokkum en dan wer werom nei Ljouwert, dêr't op de Bonke de einstreek leit. 
Hûnderttûzenen taskôgers wiene by de lêste tochten de kjeld treast en moedigen oan 'e rûte de reedriders oan.
```

The only supported evaluation metric for this task is perplexity. Because in multi-task learning we pick the model with
the highest sum of all metrics and most metrics have a range 0-1, we invert the perplexity by doing: `1-1/ppl`. This can
easily be edited in the bottom of `machamp/models/machamp_model.py`, and we welcome suggestions on how to do this more
correct/principled.

**This task type has a special handling of the data**, it uses only a portion of the data each epoch. Because MLM is
more prone to overfitting and data is cheap, we divide the dataset by the number of epochs, and thus ensure that we 
see each instance only once. If you do not have enough data with this strategy we recommend that you just multiply it
before training. You can disable this by setting `"split_mlm": false,` in the dataset configuration (at the dataset level, 
not the task level).
